# I4: Incremental Inference of Inductive Invariants for Verification of Distributed Protocols

## Overview

Create a finite instance => AVR generates an inductive invariant => Generalization

## Generalization

### The first step

univarsally quantifying the strangthening assertions (clauses) produced by AVR.

- $P(N1)$ is generalized to $\forall N1.P(N1)$

### case 1

when a clause involves different variables of the same type, weaken the universally quantified clause to only apply to distinct elements of that type.

- $P(N1) \wedge Q(N2)$ is generalized to $\forall N1, N2. (N1 \neq N2) \Rightarrow P(N1) \wedge Q(N2)$.

### case 2. Concretization

- $P(N0) \wedge P(N1)$ is generalized to $\forall N0, N1. (N0 \neq N1) \wedge (N0 = first) \wedge (N1 \neq first) \Rightarrow P(N0) \wedge Q(N1)$.

### Invariant pruning

Ivy will check if the conjunction of all generalized clauses is inductive.

- if inductive, proved.
- if fails to prove the safety property on s', this happens if the finite instance that led to the generalized clauses was too small to capture all behaviours, need to create an instance with larger size.
- if fails to prove the generalized clauses on s'.
  - the first reason: includes some instance specific clauses. Universally quantified form is **too strong**, need to removes these clauses.
  - the second reason: the entire invairant is not inductive. This can happen when the finite instance is **too small**. Remove the clause one by one until the invirant is too weak to prove the safety property.